There is this automated way of hosting an AWS WordPress Website using AWS Lightsail.
Here’s the link to the document (https://lightsail.aws.amazon.com/ls/docs/en_us/articles/amazon-lightsail-tutorial-launching-and-configuring-wordpress) 
But we will use the manual method i.e. using EC2 instance.
Here’s the link to document for the manual method (Linux OS-based) :(https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/hosting-wordpress.html)


We start with renting a virtual computer on the AWS platform and on this virtual computer we're going to install software known as Apache as a web server, 
a web server is basically software that handles HTTP requests and serves the appropriate HTTP responses so when you're trying to access a website from your 
browser your browser actually sends an HTTP request to the server of that website and on the server, there is a web server software running that will take your
HTTP request will process it and it will respond back with an appropriate response. we're going to use a web server named Apache so we're going to first
create a virtual computer and then we're going to install Apache obviously, we'll also need a database so we'll also install a DBMSon our virtual computer
and this is going to be MySQL which is a very popular relational database management system once we're done with it we're going to install WordPress now
WordPress is a very popular content management system that is written in php nothing but software really that is written in PHP and you can basically install
it on your web server and you can create a website from this installation and you can customize your website for the most part, you don't need to write any code 
to create a website with WordPress but if you want to bring more functionality to your website you can write code that's about it and once we have installed
WordPress the next thing  we're going to do is we're going to assign a domain name to our website so that whenever a user goes to your domain name they will
be taken to the website that you are creating and deploying on AWS finally, we are also going to give it an SSL certificate so that our website will be secure 
with the HTTP protocol.

Services Used:
AMAZON EC2
Lambda
Route53/Any Domain provider.

We start with creating an EC2 instance (ubuntu OS)
I have used Ubuntu at my convenience, start by : 
setting the network and creating an elastic IP for the Webserver. Then in the instance:


1. Install Apache server on Ubuntu
sudo apt install apache2


2. Install php runtime and php mysql connector
sudo apt install php libapache2-mod-php php-mysql


3. Install MySQL server
sudo apt install mysql-server 


4. Login to MySQL server
sudo mysql -u root


5. Change authentication plugin to mysql_native_password (change the password to something strong)
ALTER USER 'root'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED WITH mysql_native_password by 'YourPassword';


6. Create a new database user for wordpress (change the password to something strong)
CREATE USER 'wp_user'@localhost IDENTIFIED BY 'YourPassword';


7. Create a database for wordpress
CREATE DATABASE wp;


8. Grant all privilges on the database 'wp' to the newly created user
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON wp.* TO 'wp_user'@localhost;


Use the download link directly from the official WordPress website (https://wordpress.org/download/releases/), use the .tar version for download.


9. Download wordpress
cd /tmp
wget https://wordpress.org/latest.tar.gz


10. Unzip
tar -xvf latest.tar.gz


11. Move wordpress folder to apache document root
sudo mv wordpress/ /var/www/html


12. Command to restart/reload apache server
sudo systemctl restart apache2
OR
sudo systemctl reload apache2


13. Install certbot
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt install certbot python3-certbot-apache


14. Request and install ssl on your site with certbot
sudo certbot --apache


That's it our AWS-hosted WordPress website is up and running securely.
